Like a partner, your code comes to you with a past that you will never know.
Your commitment to your code isn't lifelong, but in this moment, it must be
complete: this is the code that belongs to you. You are the developer who
belongs to this code.

How can your code help you, if you will let it? It can respond to your effort.
Let's be honest. It can't do anything different. But can you perceive it as
different?

[Cognitive reframing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_reframing) is the
way that we, consciously or unconsciously, choose to view and experience events.

History is never just what happened. It is what happened, and how we saw it
happen, and how we remember it happening.

Cognitive reframing can heal us (it can also hurt us), but when we intentionally
choose to view events and experiences and emotions in positive or at least
neutral ways, we are choosing to live in a kinder reality.

As a confidant of Emperor Nero, Seneca enjoyed enormous fame and power. But
eventually he lost Nero's favor and left his court to retire on peaceful terms,
or so he thought. Three years later, after a failed plot to kill Nero, the
emperor thought it best to do away with Seneca. He sent soldiers to Seneca's
quiet country home. They instructed him to to take his life. He did as they
asked.

One of Seneca's works is a three-volume treatise on anger, *De Ira*. According
to Seneca, the overwhelming passions, among them anger, arise as a misperception
of reality. Seneca's translator Inwood writes that anger is therefore a product
of when the mind *makes errors about the value of things*.

Let's take a look at my story and see what errors I made about the value of
things:

* I was angry that I was passed over for a job interview by a CTO who
  very recently was writing code that I found numerous faults in.
* I believed that if our production application went down or had its security
  compromised, that I--my livelihood, reputation, or safety--was in danger.
* I believed myself and my work to be undervalued by powerful figures at my
  company, and I worried that not being valued enough put me in a vulnerable
  position.
