It's hard to make assurances on behalf of someone you don't trust.

We don't trust our legacy codebases because we don't understand them completely.

But think about the other things we trust. We trust devices, machines, and
systems that we don't understand at all. I trust that my 14-year-old Ford Taurus
will take me any place I need to be within city limits if I need to drive there.
I trust that my iPhone 4S will keep me in touch with anyone I need to be in touch
with, within reason. Clearly, I know that each of these devices is not at the
top of its individual game. And also, I don't understand how my phone works,
even less do I understand that how my car works. Get this: both of them have
failed on me. Multiple times. But I trust them enough to put the failure rates
out of my mind. Most of the time, they'll do what I need. If they don't,
then so what?

Think about the people you trust. You don't trust them all the same. You trust
some people to process your paycheck every other week. You trust other people
to give you a fair deal when your old phone or your old car breaks down on you.
I hope that you trust a few people with your honest feelings. You might trust
a couple people with EVERYTHING YOU HOLD DEAR. Do you understand everything
there is to know about any of these? Of course not.

What we're bumping up against here is a conflict between a TRUST paradigm and
a CONTROL paradigm. You trust your partner because you believe in them, you
chose them--you choose them again every day. We don't trust our code because
we don't understand every little detail in it.

What does this mean when we think about the people we work with, or the people
who have worked on this code, with us or before us?
