Ryan Davis' talk 2007 RubyConf
"Hurting Code for Fun and Profit"

Scenario 1) Developer discovers rats' nest and kills all responsible; goes to jail.
Scenario 2) Developer discovers rats' nest and attacks code. Makes code better. Wins

Take home: People press charges if you hurt them; code won't.

Believe it or not I think this guy is very right. And if his strategy works for you,
you should embrace it. Attack that code, hurt it, punish it. Correct it. Be a Ruby sadist.

I feel that being a sadist hurts. Even when your intentions are good, and the ends
are good, feeling like you are hurting something uncaringly--that hurts you back.

Medicine hurts. Chemo hurts, radiation hurts. Thankfully I haven't had to use any
of those, but taking medicine has sucked. The side effects suck. Just admitting
that you have to take it sucks. Admitting that anything is wrong with you sucks.

The more desperate the situation, the more necessary it is to turn to drastic
solutions--solutions that hurt more. When you hack, inject, extract, sever, cut,
and dissect--vivisect--your legacy codebase, are you doing it out of sadism?
It might be fun to imagine that you are--but only for a while.

The truth is, you're doing it to heal. You're doing it to make things better,
make things right. You're doing it out of love.

Yes, you should change your perspective on bad code. Of course you should not
think of it as a chore or a curse or an albatross around your neck, or a sword
over your head. Of course you should make it fun. And sometimes, it's ok to take
some pleasure in hurting it--but only because you are making it stronger.

Examples of legacy code problems that I dealt with:

AR models with 30 user-defined methods, demonstrating 6-7 class responsibilities
Shared submodules between apps containing code that can't stand alone.
300-line methods. Unnecessary local variables. Unused local variables.
Using local variables 200 lines after initializing them.
Dynamic method creation containing conditional logic tied to the specific values
that define the differences between methods created.

Some Influences:

The Passion vs. Craftsman mindset (So Good They Can't Ignore You, Cal Newport)
Passion - How can I choose work and work conditions that satisfy me?
Craftsman - How can I deliver value to the work that I have?

How do you create value? By making good things, and by making bad things into
good things. How do you become so good that they can't ignore you? By delivering
value. In terms of overall benefit vs. overall cost, you will deliver much more
value by sprucing up a legacy production system into a thing of beauty than you
will by tearing it to the ground and starting over.

Jewel-Encrusted Lobster - Imagine that your inherited code is a jewel-encrusted
lobster. Have you done well if you run away from it? If you keep it in a cage
in a dark room? If you maim and hurt it, so that it's a bleeding mess? What about
if every day you make it more simple, more elegant, more beautiful, more reliable,
and more useful.
